(lively music)
Red, tan, black.
Black.
White.
Brown, cadet blue, slate blue.
Deep sky blue.
Papaya whip.
Medium turquoise.
Light golden rod yellow.
Boom.
I got it, okay, so this is one of my favorite exercises,
and if you've taken my JavaScript 30,
you know that we use this speech recognition API
which is currently only available in Chrome,
but it's kind of a fun one to use
because we can make a little bit of a game with it
all while learning and getting better
with your JavaScript skills.
So, the first thing I want you to do is
you have to be in chrome for this one, unfortunately,
and you have to about column flags in your browser
and that will redirect you to chrome
forward slash, forward slash flags
and make sure you have experimental web platform features
turned on, we did that one with the existing example.
So you should already have that turned on.
Next, we need to get a little bit of a server
up and running, so I have this folder, 82 Web Speech colors
and if we take a look at what we've got here,
I've given you colors, yes, which gives us
every color that's available in CSS
and the corresponding hex code for that one.
And then I've also given you this function called is dark.
And this is just a function that takes in a color name
and figures out if it's a dark or light color.
I don't know, somebody online figured out
that the R G B values, if they're all multiplied
and added together if they're less than 120,
that's a dark color and then anything else is a light color
and that is what allows me to do things like a white text
on here and then a dark text on there.
So, I've given that to you already just because like,
I don't know, I stole that off of Stack Overflow.
And (chuckles) it's all I know how that works.
And then we've got styles, which is little bit styles
here for you, one night, we'll do a little bit
of animation, when you say things like corn silk, boom!
You see how that just animated itself up, dark green,
lime green, oh, that was a good one.
'Cause it got lime green and lime green.
Black.
You see that we're turning the background the color
that we see as well?
So, that's what I've got so far, I've got a little
packaged JSON here.
Nothing we haven't seen before, parcel-bundler,
last one Chrome version.
And let's get going.
So, open up your terminal to this
and you need to type npm install
and that will go ahead and install parcel for you.
Make sure you run that.
I've already run it and then when you've done that
you can type nmp start and I forgot
to put the script in here, so I'm gonna go start,
it probably will be in here for you,
which will be partial index.html.
And let's start it up.
There we so.
So this is the base that we have so far.
So, let's start up with getting the web speech going.
That's pretty fun, and then we'll also go back
on how do we wire that up to colors.
'Cause there's really two things going on here.
So let's open up speech.js.
And let's make a function called start.
And in that function, we are going to see
if their browser supports this.
And we'll run that on page load.
So, we need to check if there is
something called window.speechrecognition.
And if you see, I have just run it there,
this is undefined and that's because it's actually,
it's window.webkitSpeechRecorgnition.
And that will give you the actual function for it.
So this is what is referred to as the vendor prefix.
Meaning that the API is not totally done
so they would just vendor prefix it
by putting their prefix in front of it.
Chromes engine used to be called WebKit,
it's now called blink, but there's still a lot of stuff
that says WebKit in there that's why it says WebKit.
And what we need to do is just to sort of normalize that.
So what I'll do is on the very first right here,
I'll say window.speechRecognition is equal to
window.SpeechRecognition or
window.webkitSpeakRecognition.
And now, if we take a look at our code,
we should now just have speech recognition.
There we go.
Now we have that in there.
So now in here, we can see, see if their browser supports it
so we'll say if speechRecognition is in,
actually this needs to be in quotes, is in window,
that will check if there is a property
called speech recognition, that will give us true or false
and then we'll check for the opposites.
So wrap that in another set of parenthesis
and put a bang in front of it.
If there is no speech recognition comes along,
sorry, your browser does not support speech reco.
And then we will just return.
And that will stop the function from running.
Otherwise, it does work.
And then we will go ahead and start running our code.
You see when I return here, keeps getting turned off
by my parcel, I'm just gonna console log starting
(mumbles) will stop deleting that.
All right, so we refresh the window, it says starting
because it does exist.
Now, what we need to do down here is to make
a new speech reco, so I say const recognition
is equal to new speechRecognition
and then we need a couple settings for that.
So say recognition.continuous is equal to true.
And you can even see the tooltip will tell me
it takes a Boolean or not.
So we'll set that to true.
And that's whether or not it should continually
look for speech recognition or stop itself
after it has recognized.
So, if you think about SIRI or something on your phone,
it'll stop listening after it thinks you're done.
In our case, we just wanna run this sucker forever.
Then we also want recognition.intermResults
and that will just the results as you're speaking
rather than waiting until you are done speaking
to give you the results.
And then we also need to hook up a event listener.
Now, this is a little bit different
than most event listeners 'cause normally,
you do something like, let's just come to log recognition
and see what we got.
Here we go, we got speech recognition right here
and if you look at the prototype, there is no
.atevent listener, so how do you listen for a result?
Well, what you can do is, you can listen
for an event like this where it's recognition.onresult,
all lowercase and then you feed it a function
and we're gonna call that handleResult
and then we're gonna start it.
So, recognition.start.
Now we need to go ahead and code these results.
So let's make a new file called handler.
Or handlers.js.
And like the function, we'll export it
of handleResult, it goes to see event.
And let's just to log the event
to see what we're working with
then we'll go on to the top here and import that.
Import handleResult from handlers.
So in this case, we don't need .js on the end.
Because I'm using parcel.
And you may see a little, if I was on a different port
right now, it would probably ask me to have access to it.
Just like the webcam.
And if you click on this, you can change whether you should
allow access or block microphone access.
In our case, you wanna allow it and then give it a refresh.
And now, it should be listening to our voice
and I'm not getting any results typing in.
Oh, looks like I forgot an I there.
That's why I have spell check turned on in my editor.
So I can put I in there, there we go.
There we go.
Now, as I say things, we are getting these events
streaming in and inside of, let's open up
one of my events here.
And the inside of this is very much like a click event
but it's just a speech recognition event.
Inside of that, we have results.
And then inside of that, you've got a couple things
that it thinks it is.
So, it thinks that I said, I say things we are getting
and then it also looks at another one, these events.
So we're gonna be just taking both of those
and it will keep giving you words as it tries to figure out
what you had said, even after you stop talking,
it keeps streaming them in
until it's confident on its result.
So let's go back in our handlers here
and make another function here
called logEvent or maybe logWords we'll call it,
that takes in the results, and let's just simply
logWords event.results.
And let's just console log the results.
See what we get here?
I love pizza.
All right, so sometimes, we get this speech recognition
with a couple things in it, we wanna grab the last one.
And then inside of that, as far as I can see,
it only ever get one speech recognition alternative
which has a transcript in it.
So, if we console log results, the last one,
so, results.length minus one, and we grab
the first thing inside of that
and then the transcript of that, I love pizza.
Beautiful.
There we go.
All right, so, (chuckles).
That took me a little bit to go through it
but essentially, if you wondered how did I get to this,
use log the first thing, then you look at
what the result is, you log the next thing,
you look at what the result is
and you just kinda keep chipping away
until you finally get to the very very
deeply nested thing that you want.
All right, so now that we've got the speech being chimed in,
let's go and get the color layout working.
So if we look colors.js here,
we want to loop over each of these colors
and then display it as a span on there.
So, the other thing I did, I'm not sure
if you noticed it before or not,
is I sorted the colors by the length of the name,
so the last one was pale gold and rod yellow.
So let's make a function right here that is called,
actually no, not a function, a variable,
say, export const colorsByLength is equal to
object.keys colors and that is colors, good.
And that should give us an array of all the colors.
And then we can sort.
Let's see what we got there.
Console log, colorsByLength.
Check.
Oh, it's not going to log since we're not pulling
anything in from this file yet.
So what we'll need to do is to pull it in on speech js.
So input colorsByLength, put that
in the curly brackets, from colors.
Console log, colors by length.
Okay, so that is an array of all the colors.
Now we simply just need to run a sort command
based on their length.
So, we'll do .sort.
And you know from the sort one, we get a and b.
And we simply return a.length minus b.length.
And again, if you return a positive number,
it'll put it in front, if you return a negative number,
it'll put it behind, and if you return zero,
it will not move that item.
So there we go, starts at red.
Goes all the way down to the last one
should be pale gold and rod yellow.
There we go, or light gold and rod yellow.
Okay, so let's go into speech.js
and go ahead and create some, let's create a new function.
Let's put it above this.
Function display colors, I gotta use a regular old spelling,
not Canadian spelling, and what that will do
is it should take in an array of colors.
And let's just call that right away
at the bottom of the page.
So display colors.
We'll say colors.map, color.
And return backtext, we need the span,
that should have a class of color on it.
And let's just put the color name in there
just to see where we're working right there.
Then, if we look at our index.html,
we've got this with the class of colors
so we'll select that on page load.
Const colorsEl is equal to document.querySelector, .colors.
And then when the page loads, we'll say colorsEL
is equal to or colorsEl.innerhtml
is equal to display colors.
Cannot read property map of undefined, okay.
I'm gonna turn off this annoying thing.
So it stops streaming in to my console.
Cannot read property map of undefined.
Oh, it says I didn't pass it in the colors.
Undefined, okay.
So we'll work in here but we forgot to return
the colors map from there.
There we go, okay, so that gives us a list
of all the colors.
We should be able to return.join and now,
we'll get rid of those commas, there we go.
Then we should be able to add an in line style property
to each of these.
So style background black.
Okay, it makes them all black.
But obviously, we're not gonna do black,
we're gonna say background, this is a name of the color.
Hey, there we go, looking good.
And then, we want to know if that color is dark or not.
Because we want to pass a class of dark
to the ones that are dark and not to the ones that are light
and that will change the color of a text according
to the CSS that I wrote ahead of time.
So what we can do is do dollar curly bracket
and then we can import that isDark function from our colors
that will return true or false.
So we can say isDark color, and if that is true,
or we can use && here, &&, we'll just say dark.
And that should give it, there we go.
It will give it a class of dark to the ones that are dark
and nothing, oh, in this case, it gives a class of false.
(laughs) we don't want that, okay,
we can't use && here, we gotta go back
to regular (mumbles) and just use the empty string.
There we go.
Color, and then we're good.
Class of dark.
All right, next up, we'll go into our handlers here
and we need to do a couple of thing with the actual,
the color or the word that user has said.
So let's actually take this on the thing here.
I'll say const word or words
is equal to that and that's just calls a log of words
and I believe we have to start it again.
Red.
Results is not defined.
Oh, let's do this.
So say, const results is equal to event.results.
Or even better, we can
destructure the results property in the function definition.
And then, pass results there and then we don't need that.
Red.
Green.
Here we go.
It's going twice 'cause I'm logging it twice now,
but that's okay.
And basically, we need to check if that the words
that are streaming in are a valid color.
So we'll do a little thing here, so it says
check if it is a valid color.
We have to lowercase everything so we don't have to deal
with upper and lowercase of however it likes
the case, our colors that we're saying.
We probably also need to strip any spaces out
because sometimes, if you say red,
it will put like a, here we go,
like a space in front of them sometimes for some reason.
So strip spaces out.
And then we'll check if it is a valid color
and if it is, then show the UI for that.
So, first, lowercase everything.
So we'll say let color is equal to words.toLowerCase.
That's a console, I have to go back
and change that in just a second.
Strip any spaces out.
So we'll say color is equal to color.replace.
Now I need to make this a let
and we're going to replace all spaces with nothing.
And if you want to use replace, you could just do this
and that should do it for you
but if there's more than one space,
then you have to use a RegEx.
There is a new replace all method coming,
which will do this for you but it's not
in the browsers just yet.
So we have just replaced and we have to use a RegEx.
And a RegEx will match all spaces,
that's how you match a space in RegEx
and then if you pass a g flag, that means global.
Find them all and replace them with nothing.
Okay.
Red.
There's no space in front of those now.
And then, we wanna check if it's a valid color.
So let's go in here, say the export function
isValidColor takes in a word
and we can simply just return colors, square bracket word
and that will simple return the actual hacks
if there is something matching and it will return
undefined if there is nothing there.
And in our case, we don't care about a hacks,
we care about a Boolean.
So if we put double bang in front of it,
that will coerce it into true or false.
So if we do, let me show you a quick example here.
We just say window.colors is equal to colors.
And I'm gonna turn off these log words for a second.
Say colors and if we do colors.red,
if you wanna make that a Boolean, if it exists,
it will do bang bang.
And then if it was like a color that didn't exist
like mouse, it will give us false.
We could also do mouse is in colors.
And a red is in colors, that will give us
the same thing in this case.
So either one will work.
So we have this (mumbles) colors word,
we can then import that into our handler.
So check if it's a valid color.
So if it is not a valid color,
then, we'll simply just return and that's all folks.
So if it's not a valid color, then go ahead and return.
Not gonna say if that, 'cause my pretty here
is gonna remove my return and if it is, we'll console log,
this is a valid color.
And I'll just go ahead and console log the color.
So now, when I start talking, it's telling me everything
is a valid color, okay, that's broken.
Obviously I forgot to pass the function,
the name of our color.
Now, when I start talking pops up
but when I say something like red.
Blue, green, indigo, pale golden rod yellow.
So you see pale golden rod and yellow.
Pale golden rod yellow.
Light golden rod yellow.
Hey, pale golden rod yellow is not actually one
that's why it's not showing up.
It must be smart about these being actual words.
Okay, good.
So, if that is, then we can go ahead
and start working on it.
First, let's cross out the one,
so we wanna select a span with a class of color.
And we need like another way to select each of those.
So let's put a color name as a class as well.
Go back to our speech in here.
And as a class, let's put the color as a class as well.
And we will const colorSpan
is equal to document.querySelector.
And in our case, we need to say .red or .green.
So, what we need to do is to generate the selector,
we'll say dot and the name of the color
and it calls a log colorSpan.
Red.
So there we get it.
It probably, even a better use case for this,
we could say colorSpan is equal to
document.getElementByClassName.
Or maybe we should use an ID, 'cause an ID is only one.
Whatever, it's the same.
You can say getElementsByClass, saying pass it the color,
you don't need to put a dot in front of it
and then grab the first thing that it returns.
Both work.
Since I use querySelector for everything,
I'm gonna keep it that way.
Red.
Green.
Blue.
So what we wanna do is if we open up the CSS
of this, you see that when it has a class of got,
it will have a text decoration of line-through
and an animation of jump.
In jump, we'll basically scale it up
and then scale it back down.
So we can go right here,
we'll say colorSpan.classList.add got.
Red.
Tan.
Gray.
So it's funny, sometimes, it gives me that gray
and sometimes, it gives me that grey.
Blue.
Teal.
Oh, just got both of the grays, good.
Snow.
Gold.
There we go.
So you see it's giving it a class of got
and then it's animating it in and out.
You can even play with the animation,
make it pretty wonky.
Linen.
Wheat.
Corn silk.
Seashell.
(laughs)
That's good.
So, that's why we needed to take the spaces out as well
because for multiple words, for something like mint cream.
Mint cream.
You that it needs to put those words together
in order to match it.
And then we also want to change the background color.
And there's a couple of things we could do here,
we'll just say document.body.style.backgroundColor
is equal to color.
Red.
Blue.
Teal.
Dark gray.
Oh, it got both of the dark grays there, that was good.
So you see how it's changing the color of it
and we're simply just doing an in line style on there.
So that is the basics of doing speech recognition
and doing colors, there's a whole more you could add,
you could do like a high score, keep the score,
high score in local storage which will be pretty cool.
One thing we're doing right now is they have to say
the exact word, that's why I pause.
Honeydew, before I keep going and keep talking
'cause I need to tell the browser that I'm done talking.
It will be cool is if you just,
as I was talking, it would just look in all the words
that I'm saying, split each word and then loop over
each of those words and see if any of those are valid color.
So I could say I went and got my green car
and it would actually work.
Oh, it worked right there.
Maybe because it does stream in word by word as well.
So, kinda interesting, hopefully you enjoyed that one.
I'd love to see, make sure you Tweet me,
send me email with whatever you've built on top of this one.
I think it'd be really cool to see what that is.